---
layout: page
title: Install a new front-end module to a platform
permalink: /guides/install-frontend-module/
menuInclude: no
menuTopTitle: Guides
---

## Introduction

When the initial development of a new front-end (client-side) module is [established](/guidelines/create-new-repo/), and snapshot artifacts are being generated by the continuous integration, then it is able to be added to the "snapshot" branch of a relevant Stripes Platform, e.g.
[platform-complete](https://github.com/folio-org/platform-complete/tree/snapshot).

The procedure explained below will install the new frontend module to the platform, and make it available in the folio-snapshot and folio-testing [reference environments](/guides/automation/#reference-environments).

There is a separate procedure to [install a new back-end module](/guides/install-backend-module/).

(After the new module has been operating in snapshot and testing environments, and an initial release is ready to be made, then instead follow the [release procedures](/guidelines/release-procedures/#add-to-platforms).)

## Require backend only when ready

The normal process is that a UI module will require interfaces that are provided by back-end modules (declared in the "okapiInterfaces" section of their package.json file).
With this, the relevant back-end modules are automatically included.

A UI module could be added, and deliberately not yet require the interfaces of its companion backend module.

However do not later require those interfaces, until that backend module has [completed their addition](/guides/install-backend-module/) to reference environments.

Otherwise the addition of the frontend module will automatically pull in the backend module before it is ready, and disrupt the daily reference environment builds.

## Verify MD and required interfaces

Ensure that this new module's [ModuleDescriptor](/guides/module-descriptor/) is deployed to the FOLIO Module Registry.

Then verify that all required interfaces are available.
(The Jenkins build of your Platform branch will do this anyway.)

For example, consider the `ui-users` module.
Obtain its MD and extract the "requires" section:

```
curl -s -S -w'\n' \
  'http://folio-registry.aws.indexdata.com/_/proxy/modules?filter=folio_users&latest=1&full=true' \
  | jq '.[].requires'
```

That shows that it requires various interfaces, including `users 15.0`

Now ensure that each needed interface version is available.
One method is to visit the [https://folio-snapshot.dev.folio.org/settings/about](https://folio-snapshot.dev.folio.org/settings/about) page.

Another way is to conduct a curl query for each of the required interfaces.
(Example 'curl' of course needs token and tenant headers.)

```
curl -s -S -w'\n' \
  'https://folio-snapshot-okapi.dev.folio.org/_/proxy/tenants/diku/modules?latest=1&provide=users%3D15.0'
```

If there is a non-empty result for each of the required interfaces, then ready to proceed.
If not, then investigate further and consult the relevant [back-end module](/guides/install-backend-module/) developers.

## Declare new module

Prepare the Jira ticket to guide the process.

Prepare a new git branch of the platform, based on its "snapshot" branch.

Add the definition of the new module to both `package.json` and `stripes.config.js` files.

Push the new branch and ensure that it builds. Send pull request against "snapshot" branch.

## Verify deployment

After merge, await the scheduled build of the folio-snapshot and folio-testing [reference environments](/guides/automation/#reference-environments).

Visit the [Software versions](https://folio-snapshot.dev.folio.org/settings/about) page of each to verify that the new module is present.

<div class="folio-spacer-content"></div>

