---
layout: page
title: Primer for back-end development
permalink: /start/primer-develop-backend/
menuInclude: yes
menuTopTitle: Start
menuSubTitle: Primer back-end
menuSubIndex: 3
---

Start with introduction to [core code](/guides/#core-code)
and the [server-side](/source-code/#server-side) source code repositories.

The [Okapi Guide and Reference](https://github.com/folio-org/okapi/blob/master/doc/guide.md) provides the necessary background understanding.

The [FOLIO-Sample-Modules guide](https://github.com/folio-org/folio-sample-modules/blob/master/README.md) further explains what is a server-side module and how to develop one. Importantly, these examples show that any [programming language](/guides/any-programming-language) is possible.

Then see the guide to [Running a local FOLIO system](/guides/run-local-folio/) for guidance to establish your local FOLIO work environment.

The [Commence a module - structure and configuration](/guides/commence-a-module/) guide explains a consistent layout for a back-end module,
together with the guidelines to [Create a new FOLIO module and do initial setup](/guidelines/create-new-repo/).

The [RAML Module Builder](https://github.com/folio-org/raml-module-builder) (RMB) framework, is a special FOLIO module that abstracts much functionality and enables the developer to focus on implementing business functions. Define the APIs and objects in RAML files and schema files, then the RMB generates code and provides tools to help implement the module.
It also exposes a Vert.x based runtime library.
The [mod-rmb-template](https://github.com/folio-org/mod-rmb-template)
provides a Maven archetype to commence an RMB-based module.

The [folio-vertx-lib](https://github.com/folio-org/folio-vertx-lib) is a lightweight FOLIO module development library for Vert.x that supports OpenAPI (OAS) rather than RAML specification. It is the recommended library for developers wishing to develop FOLIO modules with Vert.x (as RAML Module Builder is no longer being extended with new functionality and is in maintenance mode only).

The [FOLIO Spring Base](https://github.com/folio-org/folio-spring-base) is a library (jar) that contains the basic functionality and main dependencies required for development of FOLIO modules using Spring framework (also known as "Spring Way").
APIs and DTOs are defined using the OpenAPI (OAS) v 3.0 files and schemas, then controller interfaces and DTOs will be generated by the openapi-generator-maven-plugin.

The [mod-spring-template](https://github.com/folio-org/mod-spring-template) provides a template that should be used to create new Spring based modules for the FOLIO platform.


[Conduct cross-module joins via their APIs](/guides/cross-module-joins/).

The [Primer for RAML and JSON Schema](/start/primer-raml/) provides some guidance.
